Add requirement section specification (#1211)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/requirements.md

- [Requirement Sections](#requirement-sections)
  * [Requirement Sections Format](#requirement-sections-format)
    + [Key Format](#key-format)
    + [Description Format](#description-format)
    + [Example](#example)
  * [Purpose of the requirement sections](#purpose-of-the-requirement-sections)

<!-- tocstop -->

</details>

This document explains how the OpenTelemetry specification requirements are written.

## Requirement Sections

This specification is written in several [Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) files.

Each of these files can contain any resource to explain and describe its part of the specification.
Examples of these resources are images, diagrams, code, regular text, etc.

Also, included in the same Markdown documents that make the OpenTelemetry specification
are to be included specific sections named _requirement sections_ that follow a specific
format. These sections are the part of the document that more formally describes each of
the specific requirements that the OpenTelemetry specification has.

Each of these requirement sections has 2 components:

1. A unique **key**, a string that identifies the requirement section in a Markdown document

> 2. A **description**, a string that MUST have one an only one of the [RFC 2119 keywords](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A **description**, a string that MUST have one and only one of the [BCP 14 keywords](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp14).
```

Reviewer: This 'one and only one' requirement will be hard to satisfy when there are normative statements like "some clause SHOULD apply, if it does it MUST ...", or "some clause is OPTIONAL but when included it MUST take this form...".

Author: Good point, @MrAlias. I guess it MAY (hehe) be possible to use something like "nested" specification sections, something like:

# requirement: requirement_for_that

> That MAY be present

## requirement: requirement_for_that_if_it_is_present

> If that is present, then that MUST be this

Nevertheless, much more thought seems to be necessary to make sure that this is a way that can cover all the situations where a section specification can be written. Also, this goes against the previous idea of using six `#` to introduce a requirement section. Since I am not sure of how to address your concern completely and correctly now, I'll rewrite this section to be less constraining. :+1:

### Requirement Sections Format

Each one of these sections are written also in Markdown syntax in order for them to integrate
with the rest of the document.

#### Key Format

The key of every requirement section MUST be unique in the document that contains it. This key
MUST be written in this manner:

```
###### requirement: unique_key_identifier
```

The first six `#` symbols create a Markdown heading for the requirement section. The `requirement: `
string that follows indicates that this particular header is part of a requirement section and not
just any Markdown six `#` heading. The following string indicated by `unique_key_indetifier` MUST be
unique in the document that contains it. The characters that make this string SHOULD only be
alphanumeric characters and underscores.

#### Description Format

The description of every requirement section MUST be written as a

> [block quote](https://github.github.com/gfm/#block-quotes) immediately following a requirement section key:

Reviewer 2: Why is a block quote required? Is the meaning of not-quoted text different?

Author: No, it is not any different but it helps the parser "know" where the description begins and where it ends.

```
> The span MUST have an identifier.
>
> More text can be placed here as well.
```

In some part of the description one and only one RFC 2119 keyword MUST appear.

#### Example

Here is a small example that shows how a Markdown document can have requirement sections to describe
its specific requirements:

```
# Some title for some OpenTelemetry concept

This part describes some OpenTelemetry concept. It can include examples, images, diagrams, etc.

After the concept is described, its specifc requirements are written in requirement sections:

###### requirement: concept_identifier
> The concept MUST have an identifier.

###### requirement: concept_documentation
> The concept SHOULD be documented in every implementation.
```

### Purpose of the requirement sections

The idea behind writing the requirements in this manner is to make it easy for the reader to find all the
requirements included in an OpenTelemetry specification document. In this way, it is also easy to find all

> the requirements a certain implementaiton must comply with. With all the requirements available for the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the requirements a certain implementation must comply with. With all the requirements available for the
```

that requirement.

With the requirements specified in this way, it is also easier for the specification and implementation
developers to refer to a certain requirement unequivocally, making communication between developers more
clear.

It is also possible to parse the Markdown documents and extract from them a list of the requirements in a
certain format. It is provided a parser that does this and produces JSON documents for every Markdown document
that includes at least one requirement section. With this JSON files, a testing schema can be produced for
every implementation that can help developers know how compliant with the specification the implementation is.

The parser can also work as a checker that makes sure that every requirement section is compliant with this
specification. This can even be incorporated to the CI of the repo where the OpenTelemetry specification is
in order to reject any change that adds a non-compliant requirement section.

Finally, it makes the specification developer follow a "testing mindset" while writing requirements. For example,
when writing a requirement, the specification developers ask themselves "can a test be written for this statement?".

> This helps writing short, concise requirements that are clear for the implementation developers.

Reviewer: This is a recipe for constrained and poor specification writing. The specification is written in English not a programming language. If this is going to impose upon authors of the English language a restriction that will take away the expressiveness needed to communicate concepts and ideas it is wrong. It should be engineered the other way, the parser should parse English.

Author: The intention of having separate specification sections is not to impose upon the authors a restriction that will take away any expressiveness to communicate ideas. Any resource to communicate ideas can be part of the document (text, images, diagrams, etc.). This PR only intends to define how _certain specific sections_ of the specification are to be written, these sections are the "hard requirements" of the specification and it is convenient that they are defined in a clear manner. This is also necessary to define precise requirements that can be easily extracted from the specification. Everything else outside these sections can be expressed freely and the only limit is the imagination of the author.
